okay so in this video we're going to add
a default WordPress gallery and it's
pretty easy to do so you just come to
your right edit page as you would
normally if you're writing any type of
post and you go to the media uploader
which is right here click on that and
then here you see the new media up later
if you have problems with this you can
go to the old media uploader but
especially for this we want to use the
new media uploader because it adds some
functionality that we're actually going
to use okay so let's go into the
computer and here we are into our folder
okay so of course you can just click
them one by one and upload them that way
but the new media uploader lets you
select a range so i can click on the
first one hit shift and then click on
the last one that i want in the range
and i get all those uploaded at once
also of course i can click on control to
add more okay i want to deselect i hit
ctrl + d selects let's do select that
one actually let's do select this one
okay and then i'll upload these and here
they come okay now you'll notice here at
the top you do not see an option for the
gallery at least in the beginning so we
still need to save all changes and then
it should appear and it does there we go
okay so the first thing we have is the
menu and we can drag these around and
make them in a different order then down
here we have linked thumbnails to the
image file or the attachment page so the
image file is when the viewer clicks on
the thumbnail they go to just the image
there's nothing else on the page the
attachment looks like it's on a blog
page and we'll play around with that a
minute what are images by the menu order
so this is our menu that we're talking
about okay and then we could do it by
title or date etc just leave menu order
typically I think this is set to
ascending so let's go ahead and leave
that for now so that means it will start
at the bottom and ascend up so this
should be our first image in the gallery
and the gallery columns how many columns
do you want typically I said I think
this is set for three so we'll go ahead
and leave that okay so let's insert the
gallery okay so here you'll notice that
you do not actually see a representation
of the gallery even though we're in a
WYSIWYG editor this is all that you will
ever see and if we go to the HTML view
will see the short code for it so that's
our gallery shortcode remember we
selected file so that's what that linked
file is about okay and let's go ahead
publish this
okay now we'll take a look at it okay
there we are there's our gallery three
columns click on this and we go just to
the image file so that's what that means
there's nothing else around it okay
let's go back and play with things a
little bit so if we click on this we
should get these options appear and this
lets us edit things that will go in here
and edit it all right so remember you
can change the order around up here if
you like let's change some things down
here let's switch this from image file
to attachment page so now when someone
clicks on a thumbnail to go to a page
that looks like another blog page so you
know definitely that you're on the blog
at that point keep the menu order and
let's change this from sending to
descending so that means we should start
at the top and descend down alright so
this is should be the first image that
we see in our gallery then we have
gallery columns 3 let's go to four ok
and ok let's update this but actually
since we're going to four let's go ahead
and add a few more images let's get two
more so it looks even
okay stick this once and then hitting
ctrl select another one let's take those
two okay there they calm and we'll just
double check make sure everything's
right the way we want it attachment
descending four columns okay
everything's cool there ok now we update
that and just quickly we'll go ahead and
take a look at the HTML before we could
look at it so we see the order now is
descending right and the columns is set
to four
ok back to our gallery let's refresh
this should see four columns we do right
so this was our first image before but
now we've set it together the other way
now this is our first image let's click
on this ok and then it comes up on a
regular blog page right so it doesn't
look like it's just all by itself and if
we click this image it should go to the
next one and it does next next next and
that's it the word press photo gallery